---
layout: session-details
category: session
permalink: /sessions/session-21/
published: true
accepted: true

title: Session 10 - Panel Discussion
presenters: Alice Bennett

date: 2013-06-21 4:30pm
room: full
---

**04:30pm: Alice Bennett**
_Discussion: Accessibility in Electronic Music_

From early electronic music’s stereotype-smashing pioneers to Imogen Heap’s
MiMu gloves, the freedom and flexibility of electronic music has opened a new world of accessible music making. 
Join electronic musicians Cassy Judy, Brigid Burke, Donna Hewitt, Cissi Tsang, and Sophie Rose to discuss the successes and lingering barriers of accessibility in music production and the industry, chaired by Alice Bennett.


Cassy Judy is a musician and proud Transgender Woman. She is currently releasing singles from her forthcoming Seven Ways EP, which will be released in October. She recently gained national media attention with her action around the Coogee Women’s Pool and organised the successful Trans Girlz Calender project and the Trans and Gender Diverse Visibility Photoshoot. She enjoys cauterwauling through song about her latest breakup- of which there are many - as well as her own light-hearted take on life and sexuality! When she’s not doing this she looking for sharks on lengthy ocean swims!

Brigid Burke is an Australian composer, performance artist, clarinet soloist, visual artist, video artist and educator whose creative practice explores the use of acoustic sound and technology to enable media performances and installations that are rich in aural and visual nuances. Her work is widely presented in concerts, festivals, and radio broadcasts throughout Australia, Asia, Brazil, Europe and the USA. .
Her art practice is traditional acoustic sound, inventive, cutting edge, acousmatic (fixed sound within acoustic spaces) and exists on the cusp between acoustic and electronic sound with mixed media art works, traditional print making, mosaics, paintings on canvas and wood and video art within the field of electronic music and imaging. Her work is beyond the framework of traditional music and video art and is considered as electronic painting, or a high art concert.

Dr. Donna Hewitt is a vocalist, electronic music composer instrument designer and academic. Donna’s research has been primarily exploring mediatized performance environments and new ways of interfacing the human body and voice with electronic media. She is the inventor of the eMic, a sensor enhanced microphone stand for electronic music performance and more recently has been creating wearable electronics for controlling both sound and lighting in performance. Her work has attracted funding from the Australia Council for the Arts, most recently with all female collective Lady Electronica. Donna has held academic positions at the Sydney Conservatorium of Music and Queensland, University of Technology and is currently the Head of Creative Arts and Communication and the Coordinator of the Bachelor of Music at the University of New England, Sydney Australia. In 2018 Donna performed her work as part of the VIVID Festival, and The Bondi Feast Festival and in 2018 she presented her work at the MINT (Music in New Technologies) Conference in Halifax, Nova Scotia. She recently performed her collaborative work #Me Too at SFGA in Tokyo and at the Convergence Festival of Technology and New Ideas in Leicester, UK.

Born in 1982 in Hong Kong, Sze Tsang (they/them) is a nonbinary audio-visual artist living in Perth, Australia. Their work explores the emotional  nature of landscape, and the main focus of their practice has been on their response to the natural landscape as a composer and performer. Part of their practice involves incorporating audio and visual elements of place into compositions, and using the landscape as a narrative device.
Sze has performed and exhibited works in Australia, Asia, UK, Ireland and the USA as samarobryn,  and has been nominated multiple times in the WAM Song Of The Year Awards in the experimental category. Sze has also been nominated in the 2019 WAM Awards for Best Experimental Artist.  Sze is currently a PhD candidate at the Western Australian Academy Of Performing Arts (Edith Cowan University).

Alice Bennett is a flutist and sound artist based in Naarm with creative work encompassing composition, installations, and live performance of both written and improvised music. She is interested in acoustic ecology and bioacoustics and has collaborated with visual artists and scientists, exploring issues of climate, endangered species, and our relationship with the environment. Her music bounces around the borders of experimental sound art and electronic dance music with heavy influences from contemporary art music and 1980s synth pop. Alice lectures in composition and production at the Australian Institute of Music.
Alice is the President of Tilde New Music and Sound Art Inc. and Artistic Director of the Tilde New Music Festival. She is currently enrolled in a Masters of Cultural Leadership at the National Institute of Dramatic Arts. In 2019 she suffered a brain injury in a road cycling accident and has spent the last two years in rehabilitation, gradually returning to herself and her creative practice.

Sophie Rose is a contemporary vocals lecturer at the Australian Institute of Music and a doctoral student at the University of Melbourne, Australia. She is a singer, extended vocal technique enthusiast, composer, improviser, performer, and maker. Originally from New Zealand, Rose incorporates Māori mythology into many works and creates new technologies with collaborator, Cloud Unknowing. She performs and collaborates with Sophie Rose & the Manual Breathing and surrealist music collective Little Songs of the Mutilated. Her exploration of the relationship between creative practice and technology development is ongoing. This concern is reflected in her master’s thesis, which explores the effects of physical and non-physical environments on extended vocal techniques and throat-singing as a creative practice.

