---
layout: session-details
category: session
permalink: /sessions/session-7/
published: true
accepted: true

title: Session 7
presenters: Matt Bray

date: 2013-06-20 1:30pm
room: room-3
---

**01:30pm: Matt Bray**
_Telemidi - the potential of exchanging MIDI across the Internet_

This presentation discusses Telemidi, a targeted approach to MIDI network design developed by the author to minimise the obstruction of latency within MIDI based Network Music Performance (NMP).  By exchanging MIDI performance data over The Internet, Telemidi functions as a Telematic Music Performance (TMP, a subset of NMP) and a systems approach to musical engagement that has attracted significant enthusiasm over the recent fifty-year period of emergent digital technologies.  Telemidi has connected a diverse array of global participants since commencing in 2017, uniting remote practitioners across Europe, North and South America, and in the Asia Pacific region.  During the 2020 COVID lockdowns a significant increase of public interest became focussed towards Telemidi wherein the author noted that globally, as social distancing increased, so too did the culture of online practice within virtual communities.  As a result, current investigations for Telemidi are focussed on streaming media produced by NMP events into virtual environments that immerse remote audiences within spatial stimuli such as ambisonic audio.  These approaches enable remote artists and musicians to compose, improvise and co-create in real-time with the opportunity for an audience member to enter an interactive, virtual space and experience the cooperative interplay via innovative media formats. 

Critically, the process of sharing time sensitive music performance information over The Internet exposes data to latencies that disrupt the millisecond timing of human-to-human musical intercourse, therefore attaining successful TMP environments has proven to be overwhelmingly elusive.   Telemidi networks exchange only MIDI information to benefit from the relatively miniature data packet sizes, before triggering complex, asset laden apparatus at each location which behave in a duplex and `near-identical’ fashion.  The reduction in data exchanged is only one example within a suite of Latency Accepting Solutions (LAS) employed within bespoke Telemidi networks, in each case being curated to suit the skills and capacity of performers, the characteristics of genre and to expedite the pursuit of networked musicality. 
