---
layout: session-details
category: session
permalink: /sessions/session-13/
published: true
accepted: true

title: Session 2
presenters: Federico Camara Halac, Stuart James

date: 2013-06-21 9:30am
room: Room 1
---

**09:30am: Federico Camara Halac**
_,Äú1002,Äù: A Collaborative Networked Performance with CollidePd_

Lockdowns and travel restrictions have not only affected our own music classes and artistic research but have also profoundly changed music performance worldwide. In other words, since musicians cannot meet in the same room to play music with each other, they have learned to move their musical performance to the network. We argue that this translation can be thought of as a new opportunity to rethink music and music performance research, considering the network as a new performative space. 

As a case study, we present "1002", a collaborative networked performance created using a custom software called "CollidePd". "1002" is an invitation to anonymous collaboration in real time with remote performers, without any required musical training. The sonic research of this performance is based on the sonification of the musical gesture mediated by the mobile device, emphasizing the participatory movement of the performers.

**10:00am: Stuart James**
_Framing the Shot: a reflection over a decade of Recording Live Instruments and Electronics_

This article is a reflection over a decade of recording methods explored during the production of twelve albums of live electroacoustic music, that is involving mixed acoustic instruments and electronics. The article focuses largely on the complexities of signal flow associated with live electroacoustic music, and the relationship of the commercial recording studio with the ecosystem of the live electroacoustic system. Various recording strategies are proposed depending on the associated “liveness” required in the realization of the work. Several scenarios are proposed that put into question whether the Digital Audio Workstation (DAW) in the studio environment serves as a recorder, an insert, a distribution hub or splitter, or a receiver. Contemporaneous scenarios, such as Internet-based multitrack recording and telematic performance are discussed, and the article proposes how alternative strategies of signal flow are required for live electroacoustic music, and how audio-over-IP technologies such as Dante allow for a simplification of the physical footprint associated with “cable spaghetti.” 

The article does include a discussion of industry standard microphone methods including the Decca tree, blumlein, ambisonic, binaural, coincident, non-coincident, and spaced arrays. Alternative scenarios are discussed including inductor and piezo sensors, live audio feedback, sympathetic resonance using transducers, both analog and digital live interactive electronics, spatialisation, and polytempo click-tracks. 

With some additional middleware, it is possible to synchronise the DAW session with the Decibel ScorePlayer, an application used to display animated musical scores. This synchronisation allows scores to be used as an integrated tool throughout the editing process. Scoreplayer scores rendered as video can also be synchronized in the DAW allowing for precise editing of note onsets and offsets when required. 
