---
layout: session-details
category: session
permalink: /sessions/session-15/
published: true
accepted: true

title: Session 4
presenters: Nadiah Jailani, Taiyo Shirai

date: 2013-06-21 11:00am
room: Room 1
---

**11:00am: Nadiah Jailani**
_The bedroom as studio space: creating and improving the acoustic environment for the purpose of audio engineering_

This research project experiments on a rental bedroom to create a workspace for mixing purposes. Mixing is typically done in acoustically treated rooms called the post-production studio or a recording studio control room because of the reliable auditory environment. This research engages on a qualitative method which is then applied to the practical aspect of the project. This project also explores a DIY approach to avoid major constructions and high expenses so it can be applied by aspiring mixing engineers that do not have a high budget to set up their space. The use of suitable acoustic treatment (DIY bass traps and acoustic panels) was applied on the bedroom walls and corners to achieve a similar environment in a bedroom space. The improvement in room frequency was recorded on a software called Room EQ Wizard, to be visually seen. 

**11:30am: Taiyo Shirai**
_Can the Roland SP404-SX be used as a complete tool for music production? An autoethnographic study of the process of creating music on the SP_

Abstract goes here.

The purpose of this study was to examine the extent to which a digital sampler could be utilized as a complete production tool outside of the genres of hip hop/electronic music. This was done through an autoethnographic study of producing a song “out-of-the-box” using the Roland SP404-SX digital sampler. More often utilized in hip hop production, the use of the SP as a complete tool for music production was conducted through the creation of a song without the use of pre-existing audio materials (sampling songs). Rather, the entire production process (recording, arranging, mixing) was completed without the use of a computer, and the findings suggest that although limited in many aspects, the SP can be utilized as a complete tool for music production by following certain guidelines and methods. However, the limitations found in the workflow used in this study could be potentially avoided through the use of an external recording device used to supplement the SP, and further research would be required to investigate a more optimal workflow that could utilize the SP and its functions to the fullest potential. 